Let's configure our pricing service to only allow access to
authorized clients with the pricing scope.
If we look at how Spring Boot configured our resource server in
the OAuth2ResourceServerAutoConfiguration class,
which used the OAuth2ResourceServerWebSecurity Configuration,
by default it's all requests should be authenticated
by a resource server using JWT.
Let's override it.
To do that,
we need to create our own config class that extends
the WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter,
you're probably already very familiar with this class,
and override the configure method is the HttpSecurity builder.
Configure it to authorize any requests that have the authority SCOPE_pricing.
If you recall,
all scopes are added to the granted authorities by
Spring by default with a capital SCOPE_.
And enable ResourceServer with JWT.
Now only the tokens created by the portfolio service via the
client credentials grant will have the pricing scope and
therefore have access to the pricing service.
In our portfolio client's MVC web app,
let's go through some of the more complex URI authorizations.
Here we are using an mvcMatcher to be more specific.
For the login and login-error page, we use the permitALL,
which will allow unauthenticated users access to these URLs
so that they can authenticate themselves.
Next, for /portfolio, which is used for the portfolio controller,
only authenticated users with the role USER have access.
For the support page, it's USERS and ADMINS.
Now for the admin URL that maps to the admin controller,
we want only clients with the approved scope of portfolio_ADMIN.
So we use the hasAuthority, the SCOPE_ prefix, followed by a portfolio_ADMIN.
In effect,
our React clients will never be able to generate a
token with the portfolio admin scope.
And therefore,
even users with the admin role will not be able to access admin features.
If we look at the token that will be generated for
Victoria via the Crypto Portfolio clients,
the scopes will be automatically mapped by Spring into the granted authorities,
but the roles won't be by default.
We need to instruct Spring on how to map them to the granted authorities.
So in the GrantedAuthoritiesMapper that we created in module 2,
we simply look up the roles attribute.
And if it contains our portfolio-admin role,
we add an admin role to the granted authorities.
Next,
we need to do the same authorization in our portfolio service as
we don't want someone to get around this authorization by going
directly to the portfolio service. Let's look at how to do that next.